# Fantasticsearch - a small search engine written in Python #

The aim of this lesson is to write a software titled *Fantasticsearch*
in Python consisting of multiple source files. The name is totally
not related to a popular search engine. \*cough\*

How long it will take you to complete this lesson is up to you. You can read all tips
and peak at the solutions and complete this lesson is less than 2 hours.

Or you could only read the descriptions and try to do everything yourself,
studying the [Python documentation](https://www.python.org/doc) and other sources online.
In that case you should expect to spend about 8 hours with this lesson,
but ultimately it depends on your general experience as a programmer
and your individual speed.

Obviously you will feel much safer in Python after the lesson, 
if you try to do as much as you can yourself, but as I said it is up to you
and it is a matter of how much time you are willing to invest in this course. 

## About Fantasticsearch ##

Fantasticsearch is a small program that makes JEPs - 
Java Enhancement Proposals, the Java equivalent to Python's PEPs - searchable.

For that purpose Fantasticsearch parses the online JEP index and downloads all listed JEPs.
In a next step all relevant text is extracted from JEPs, split into tokens,
serialized and saved as a file which allowes Fantasticsearch 
to launch significantly faster in subsequent sessions.

Fantasticsearch is accompanied by Jepana, a web frontend,
that allows users to input a search string
and list all JEPs relevant for this search string.
JEPs listed in Jepana are linked to their web pages,
so the user can jump directly from the web frontend to the respective JEP 
hosted at the OpenJDK website.

Implementing Fantasticsearch and Jepana is broken down into several sub lessons.

## Structure of this lesson ##

This lesson consists of 14 sub lessons named 1A to 7C.
You can do them in order but if you're doing this course in a group
it is also possible to work on them in parallel.

Naturally 1A must be completed before 1B,
but you can start with 2, 3, 4 and 5 while 1 is still in progress.

For 6A and 6B the completion of the previous sub lessons is beneficial
because you will then be able to test Fantasticsearch with Jepana as a whole,
but it is also possible to complete them beforehand,
only programming against the interfaces.

7A to 7C should be done last because they affect multiple files.

### How to complete a sub lesson ###

At first note the [workspace](workspace) folder in this repository. 
This folder contains all source code files, and some mostly empty functions.
These functions should help you to finish the lessons.
You should not add any other source files, but you are allowed to add functions
within them as you see fit.

There is a fully implemented version of Fantasticsearch and Jepana 
in the [solution](solution) folder but you shouldn't look into it 
until you have completed the course yourself.

Each sub lesson has their own markdown file which is structured as followed:
* The first section contains a general description of the task
and the estimated difficulty level compared to the other sub lessons.
* The interface section contains information about which file
  you will be working in, which function is affected 
  and what signature that function must have. The function signature 
  (parameters and return value) is very important if you're working in a group.
* Depending on how much time you want to spend on the course and
  how experienced you are as a programmer, you either want to always read the tips
  section or rather not at all. Let's face it: You haven't learnt everything
  you need to know to write this program in the previous lessons, so when you're stuck,
  you can either search for information online or have a look at the tips section.
* You shouldn't have a look at the solution before you come up with one yourself.
  You can use the solution to check if yours is correct or if you really, really
  struggle with a lesson, even with the tips given. Obviously there is more than one
  solution for every lesson and yours might be even better than mine.
  
You can read the markdown files online if you want, but you should check out this repository
to implement your version of Fantasticsearch in the workspace folder on your computer.

It is assumed that as a programmer you have git installed. 
You should also know how to clone this repository but if not,
open a command line interface and navigate to your workspace directory,
then input: ```git clone https://gitlab.com/christianpflugradt/fantasticsearch-python-course.git```

And now: Have fun and enjoy the course!

## List of sub lessons ##
The number of plus signs (+) indicates the difficulty level of the sub lesson
in relation to the other sub lessons.

* [1A - download the JEP index ++](1A.md)
* [1B - download all JEPs +++](1B.md)
* [2A - find relevant text in content +](2A.md)
* [2B - filter and tokenize text ++](2B.md)
* [3A - check if database exists +](3A.md)
* [3B - save and restore database ++](3B.md)
* [4A - (incomplete) start a webserver ++++ ](4A.md)
* [4B - (incomplete) render search results ++++](4B.md)
* [5A - implement search engine +++++](5A.md)
* [6A - (incomplete) load database ++](6A.md)
* [6B - (incomplete) run Fantasticsearch +](6B.md)
* [7A - (incomplete) improve JEP download speed +++](7A.md)
* [7B - (incomplete) improve tokenizing speed +++](7B.md)
* [7C - (incomplete) start Jepana before database is loaded +++](7C.md)

## Navigation ##
* [back to course overview](../../README.md)
* [repeat lesson 1](../lesson-1.md)
* [repeat lesson 2](../lesson-2.md)
